---
title: Journey is not over
date: 23-10-2023
---

I cannot say that the last six months has been a breeze because that would be farther from the truth than the Earth is from Jupiter. I have truly been tested in ways that I have not encountered in my life up to this job and I am grateful for that because it has made me not only a better developer and employee, but a better person as well. After just graduating college I was definitely in a mental state to just hit the ground and start working and this kind of got haunted when I joined clean coders because I was almost like a student again. Despite this I knew I wanted to be a software developer and I knew that this was the best opportunity I had. I also believed that an apprenticeship was absolutely perfect for someone like me who had relatively little experience with software. Because of my lack of experience and expertise I knew how hard I was going to have to work to complete my goal and I knew I had to not only prove to the company that I could do this but to myself as well. I am beyond joyful that I passed my final apprenticeship challenge last Friday. It feels like the culmination of four years of college plus the six months that I have been an apprentice here. I definitely had ups and downs along the way from times I didn’t complete a story by the deadline and felt absolutely horrible to the wonderful moments where I would figure out a way to complete a story that I thought was impossible. I will never forget the feeling of figuring something out after working on it for hours and hours, it is a feeling that is hard to be matched and is why I love software so much. I love building and I love solving problems, its always been an integral part of who I am and I feel as if software gives me an ability to express that every single day. Two weeks ago I was given my first chance at completing my final challenge and unfortunately I failed…. I did not live up to the companies or my own expectations and looking back at my original code I feel pretty embarrassed because I knew I could do better than that. I don’t know if it was the initial stress or the amount of work I had to do in the short timespan but I messed up and it was on nobody but myself. I really payed attention to the feedback I was given and the next week I improved the software and my blog to a near infinite degree. I addressed all of the negative feedback I was given and I really wrote to my best ability to produce something I was proud of. I want to say thank you to all of the craftsmen who helped me get to this point like Micah, Gina and Brandon and especially to Alex who has been a great friend and mentor despite us both being apprentices for most of our journey.
