---
title: Contains?
date: 19-09-2023
---


Completely off topic from what I have been blogging about, but I found something very useful with the contains? function last week and I wanted to share. Typically this function is used for maps and can let you know if a certain key exists in that map. Now in terms of vectors it only tells you if the index exists so if I have [1 2 3 19] and I did (contains? [1 2 3 19] 19) the answer would one false since there is no 19th index. However, if you convert the vector to a set #{1 2 3 19} and then do the same thing (contains? #{1 2 3 19} 19) the answer is true. I found this to be very helpful and there’s not much documentation of this online. This makes searching through vectors for a given value a thousand times easier and you can very easily just convert the set back to a vector if needed.
Back to today, I worked mostly on implementing new story modal changes and so far I am not thinking they will be much of an issue. I already got two of the four checklists completed so I feel good going into tomorrow that I will finish it. Besides that I worked on some hotkey message changes with Olive. We wanted to only display the hotkey message for the user so if multiple people are estimating a story, the user should only see the hotkey message below their estimating cards and no one else’s. This was successful and we pushed it to staging to really test it. In staging it seemed to be perfect, the message is only displayed under the users cards so there is no more clutter and a bunch of hotkey messages. Tomorrow I will complete the story where I focus the enter button when all cards are estimated so that the user can hit enter and submit their estimation. The last story I have to do which I would like to also get done today is the pending member member modal. I simply need to display the pending members of that project in the member modal and add a couple buttons and functionalities, like the ability to remove a pending member and get another invite link.
