---
title: Pending status
date: 13-09-2023
---

After setting up the invite link that will be sent to someone’s email I ha to figure out a way to also display a users pending invites on their home screen. This was more of a challenge because we now need a tie to the user when sending the email and setting up the unique 20 character invite link. To do this I created some functions that check if the email being sent belongs to any existing user and if it does it creates a new membership for that user and project but also adds a pending key set to true. When this member entity has a pending set to true that project will not show up in their project list but instead on the pending invite section where they can then decide whether to join or decline the project. If a user joins or declines a project from there the link sent to their email will then become invalid and unusable. Similarly, if a user clicks the link from the email they will now see the project in their project list and not in the pending invite section. Additionally, if a user is a pending member to a project and they try to enter through pasting the project link they will still be blocked until they accept the membership and the pending status is set to false. I think I have implemented this well and all of the acceptance criteria has been met. I also added some extra styling to the milestone dnd as when we grab a milestone it will tilt at an angle signifying it is being dragged and then corrects its position when dropped. I now just have one more story to complete and I plan on doing it well because it is important we have no more iterations that can’t be signed.
