---
title: New squared
date: 21-09-2023
---

Nearing the end of the week is always a stressful but exciting time as the stories are coming towards their due date. On one hand I look forward to the demo and showing off everything I worked on, but on the other hand I want it to go perfectly and so I know it’s going to lead to some stress as I try to put forward the best code that I can. I feel pretty confident this week, I have the pending member and current member modal set up very well and all the functionality that was required from the story is there and working smoothly. I did spend a decent amount of time today on perfecting this and writing thorough tests for each aspect.  I had multiple rounds of writing tests getting them to pass, testing in browser and then refactoring. I ended up doing a decent amount of refactoring on backend, specifically with resending the email to the pending member and trying to reduce the amount of reused code as much as possible. In addition to trying to perfect that story I also had to implement some of the new story modal features. This story surprised me because I did not expect it to take as long as it did. I figured most of it would simply be replacing a lot of the old structure with the new structure. However, I was completely wrong as some of the changes required completely rearranging how the modal is set up and changing where certain functions are called. It also required me to break some functions apart into smaller ones so that I could reuse code that already worked in the new desired format. Of course, there where aspects of the new implementation that required me to completely change the functionality of a certain aspect of the modal like adding a see more and see less option for the activity history or changing where the story member icons go after adding them and how to remove them again. Next week I still need to finish the modal including changing how the tags are edited and how the tasks are added and edited as well. 
