---
title: Intruding on my story
date: 26-09-2023
---

Yesterday was a nice and productive day got basically three stories done which makes me feel good and I also bought a new car!!!. This is the first car I have bought myself and it really felt great to be able to make a purchase like this with the money I have been saving for multiple years. I decided to get a new and not used one because I knew I would have it for a long time and its safe to say I am happy with my decision. Today was another productive day, I spent a lot of it figuring out why an addition of a member to a story is causing the acceptance criteria diff to collapse even when a user is currently looking at the uncollapsed criteria diff. My first thought was this doesn’t make any sense, the collapsing of the diff is caused by a ratom being changed to true or false by clicking on an icon. After thinking some more I realized that because the function was dependent on the members present in the story it may be causing the entire component to re render setting the ratom back to its original state. However, this still shouldn’t necessarily cause the entire component to re render like it is and the current members viewing the story has zero impact on the activity history records. Though I was still confused about why the. Issue was occurring in the first place, seeing as how the collapsed atom gets reverted when someone opens the story modal gave me an idea. This idea was to create the collapsed atom as true in the main story modal function that calls the activity history and all other components of the modal. Doing this meant I could pass the ratom in as a parameter to the activity history function. This worked and the ratom was no longer affected by other people opening the story  and it behaved correctly. I also got some lemon graft stories done, just some entry level stories to get my feet wet with the site. I am excited to b working on something new and I think its a really unique and cool website that I am happy to be a part of.
