---
title: A much needed update
date: 10-09-2023
---


I want to start this blog post by stating that I will not fall behind again on writing daily blogs for my apprenticeship. I should have never stopped but I got distracted by all the internal development work I have been doing. Each week of this internal development phase has been a challenge that has led to me working non-stop on these stories and often working overtime to try and complete them. Part of my problem in the beginning of this phase was under estimating the time to complete the stories but I am getting better at this every week. I know it isn’t a good excuse but I guess I prioritized completing the internal development stories over writing blog posts. Often times I would be so into the stories that I was working on that I would forget I needed to write the posts and I also felt more pressure because Alex was relying on me to complete my part of the iteration for demos each Friday. From here on out I will reprioritize the blog posts, as I know it is an important part of my apprenticeship and I want to do everything that is expected of me so that I can become a craftsmen. On a different note, I have learned a strikingly large amount since this phase has started and I feel I am becoming a true developer. Working on Epic and poker has shown me what it takes to make a real fleshed out website. When I first started working on it, I was intimidated as the project was much larger than anything I had worked on previously. It also contained a lot of new concepts and technology that I had to familiarize myself with. Challenges are something I have always enjoyed and this is no different. Through success and failure, I now feel very comfortable working with these sites and I have made a lot of valuable changes and contributions to them. One of the overarching concepts I have learned is how data is passed from front end to backend on a large scale clojure project. This was a big hurdle but through working on stories like the jira import, bug fixes and making projects invite only I have had to create new features on epic that required both front end and backend development. Learning about it is one thing but actually creating full stack features has made a much more rounded developer and I will continue to improve on this. I have learned about a thousand more things since starting this phase like working with datomic/bucket, new testing techniques, improving my TTD , finding bugs and more. I will be going into more detail about everything I have done and learned in this upcoming week. 
