---
title: 21 problems
date: 28-09-2023
---

My confidence is nearing an all time high since I have started this journey. I no longer question whether or not I will complete a story and this week has just helped solidify this feeling even more. I had a very tiny thought earlier that maybe I was just getting good at epic and poker because I have been working on it for so long but these feeling where quickly squelched when I was able to solve a Lemon Graft story in relatively quick time. Despite the story being pretty simple I have to say I impressed myself just with how fast I was able to read the story, identify the location of code I needed to work on, figure out how other similar features in the code work and then use that to build the feature that I needed to create which was simple placing a browse link in the user menu. On another note, today I spent a lot of time upgrading the server to use java 21. I had forgotten some of the steps to doing this when I walked through an upgrade earlier with Micah and Alex, but Alex was able to help me remember some of the beginning steps. Creating a new instance for which I build the image on was not too bad. Well initializing it was not too bad but sshing into it and then following all the steps in the infrastructure readme was a bit more unfamiliar and stranger. I had a nice flow going and when it came to downloading the new java, clojure, and necessary tools I surprisingly, had no hiccups. Great, now all I have to do is create the base image off of this instance and then replace the image id in the config file in infrastructure. Unfortunately, this did not pan out well as I was unable to connect to the correct port… Turns out I changed the port number but did not uncomment it… silly mistake but easily fixed. Now I got it right??! Nope I had not added github as known hosts in the ssh folder, not allowing it to connect to github. After adding the known hosts I was able to successfully create a new image and provision a new staging server!
