---
title: 404 status
date: 25-09-2023
---

I feel a good sense of accomplishment and motivation heading into this week. The last 5 months has really prepared me for completing stories and writing clojure with tdd. I used to be nervous or worried about certain stories earlier in my apprenticeship and now I always have confidence that I’m going to figure it out and complete the story. The last couple weeks has only exemplified this feeling as I have completed all my stories while not staying up late or doing things last minute, my estimation ability has increased dramatically. To start this week I am going to work on implementing the new 404 page. The old one was one single page and it also had some hiccup bugs where random hiccup characters make its way on to the screen as text rather than html. Olive has made 6 or 7 different 404 page implementations that all have different and funny messages. My job is to make it so that it randomly selects one of these options each time the 404 page is reached. To do this I am going to use a case function and a random number generator to determine which layout to choose. If the random number is say less than 0.28 but greater than 0.14 it will select the second 404 page option and so forth. This was not too hard to implement. The other story I did today was removing the ability to unlink an epic story in poker and I also cleaned up the hotkey functions and refactored some code so that is cleaner and makes more sense.
```clojure
(defn rotate-404 []
  (let [random (rand)]
    (cond
      (< random 0.14)  0
      (< random 0.28)  1
      (< random 0.42)  2
      (< random 0.56)  3
      (< random 0.70)  4
      (< random 0.84)  5
      (< random 0.98)  6
      :else 0)))
```
