---
title: OOP and SRP
date: 10-05-2023
---

What is Object Oriented Programming? 


Many would say it is encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and abstraction. However, 

these are merely properties of OOP and do not describe what it means to be object

oriented. Some may also say that OOP is about replicating the real world in software, but 

programming itself is about replicating the real world, so what is it? Being object oriented is 

about inverting dependencies. Inverting dependencies that allows the program to be flexible 

and open to change is what separates OOP from other styles of programming. Inverting 

dependencies means high level modules and classes are not dependent on low level modules

and classes making it a lot easier to change the low level classes/modules without affecting the 

higher level ones. This is extremely useful as users change or add to their story and need 

different functionality from the software. Dependency inversion is one of five SOLID principles 

of object oriented design. One of the key factors that helps a program invert dependencies is 

the use of the single responsibility principle which means a class should only have one purpose 

and it should do that one purpose very well. This removes dependencies and makes the 

program more flexible to change as you will not have to change and re compile the entire 

program when a change is made to one class. SRP is truly about the users, its about the 

responsibility to that user and what they may change. The primary responsibility of software is 

that it is “soft” that is to say it is open to change without cost meaning it is not fragile. The 

principles of OOP help ensure the primary responsibility is fulfilled and I look forward to 

watching videos about the other principles such as the Open-Closed principle and Liskov 

Substitution principle. 

I will make it my job to make sure the primary responsibility of software is fulfilled in all projects I create.
