---
title: A new opportunity
date: 12-09-2023
---

This week is the first time I will be working on internal development stories without Alex. Its really not too much of a shift considering we would split up the work and do it independently often times anyway. What it does is leave with me an opportunity to show I can do this on my own and so I plan on having a perfect iteration. Today I worked on implementing some of the milestone drag n drop improvements. The major one I did today was make it so that the user can drop the milestone on any vertical level within the milestone div. Now the entire drop zone area is suitable for dropping the milestone instead of just the header as it was before. This was done by registering the milestone pickup on the header and the drop on the entire div that makes up the milestone. The pickup needed to remain on the header so as to not interfere with the story drag n drop. In terms of a visual to let the user know the milestone has been dropped I was thinking something subtle, but I am going to meet with Olive soon to discuss that as I am sure she has better ideas on this topic than I do. In other news I moved a story about from the next iteration into this one because it will permanently fix any iteration signing issues. I feel embarrassed when someone is unable to sign an interaction because there is a misplaced story especially, after I did a mass migration to fix this very issue. It now seems that even with the current implementation there is possibility for misplaced stories so I will now make the iterations display stories based on the single source of truth which is the iteration key of the story instead of the edn list. I believe this will resolve any issues and make the possibility of an un signable iteration a lot more unlikely.
