---
title: Looking forward
date: 15-09-2023
---

Friday I had my internal development demo and I think it went pretty well. The pending members and invite link went perfectly, and I put a lot of work into that so Im happy it turned out well. The same goes for the milestone changes and I was even able to add a tilting effect to the stories when they are being dragged as well. I am happy with the changes I made to how the stories are listed in the iterations and milestones and after pushing to production everything seems to be good and I cannot find any wrongly placed stories. It should be impossible now for a story to not show up in an iteration or a milestone if the story has that entity as one of their attributes. The only thing that did not go perfectly was the new story edit button in poker. This was the last thing Olive and I worked on because we where busy with other stories and unfortunately this did not give us enough time to adequately test it out in the local environment. Tests within poker passed but there was an issue with not being able to close the dropdown when clicking anywhere on screen and if you highlight another story below the dropdown it leads to some visual error. Besides that the two buttons worked great in terms of linking to the story in epic and editing the title. These are changes that I will work on with the upcoming iteration and I will make sure it is perfect for the demo on Friday. I am looking forward to this weeks iteration and I think I estimated the stories perfectly to have enough time to get everything done. I have made it a goal to continue to get better at estimating and I think I am showing a lot of improvement in that area. In terms of prioritizing stories this week  I believe implementing all of the changes in the story modal will be the most difficult, so I plan on starting it first and getting the story out of the way.
