---
title: Rise of the Romans
date: 23-05-2023
---


The last two days I have practiced my roman-numeral kata and I am getting very familiar with how to solve

the problem, how to write the tests for it and in general how to problem solve using test-driven

development. To begin, I knew I would need to get a collection of integer values associated with a roman 

string so I thought of the simplest possible beginning test and worked from there.

I created a test that simply returns a vector with 1 in it when the roman numeral I is inputed. 

After iteratively going through and increasing the complexity of the tests I realized that I can 

define a map with the roman characters and their associated integer values.  I could then use 

the map function along with the map I defined with an input of a roman string to retrieve a 

collection of values associated with the entire string.

```clojure
(describe "roman numeral calculator"
  (it "returns a collection of numbers for roman string"
    (should= [1] (roman-int "I"))
    (should= [5] (roman-int "V"))
    (should= [1 1 1] (roman-int "III"))
    (should= [5 5 1] (roman-int "VVI"))
    (should= [1 5 10 50 100 500 1000] (roman-int "IVXLCDM"))
    )

(def roman-numerals {\I 1 \V 5 \X 10 \L 50 \C 100 \D 500 \M 1000})


(defn roman-int [roman-string]
  (map roman-numerals roman-string))

```
I then moved on to adding the the numerals together to get the total value using a function 

called roman-calculator. I begun with simply reducing the returned collection from roman-int 

and that works fine until any subtraction logic is needed. I then tried making a function that 

checks if the first value in reduce is greater than the second one then we subtract the first from 

the second if not we add them. I also realized I needed to get the reverse of the collection 

because if the input was “VI” I was getting [5  1] and I wanted to perform the logic from the 

right side and move left in the values. This function that I called “add-or sub” worked when 

there was only two characters in the string but stopped working because it was adding the 

total and then checking if the total so far was greater than the next value and of course this 

caused issues. I realized that the highest difference between consecutive roman numerals is a 

factor of 5, like \I, \V and \L and \C. I then tried changing add or sub to check if the first value is 

greater or equal to 5 times the second value, if it was then we subtract the first from the 

second, else we add them.

```clojure
(defn add-or-sub [a b]
  (if (>= a (* 5 b))
    (- a b)
    (+ b a)))

(defn roman-calculator [roman-string]
  (reduce add-or-sub (reverse (roman-int roman-string))))
```

This works for every test numeral I have attempted I will break down how it works with an example.

```clojure
(should= 999   (roman-calculator “CMXCIX"))
```

“CMXCIX” = [10 1 100 10 1000 100] 

10 > (1 * 5) so we sub and get 9

9 < (100* 5) so we add get 109

109 > (10 * 5) so we sub and get 99

99 < (1000 * 5) so we add  and get 1099

1099 > (100 * 5) so we sub and get 999
