---
title: Quil usage
date: 07-06-2023
---

Quill:


Using quill for the first time has been unlike any other gui I have used in the past. In my previous experience I have worked with pygame and tkinter which are fairly straight forward and did not take me much time to get used to. Quill on the other hand, was a bit of a challenge for me when I first looked into it an began to construct my gui for the Langton ant kata. Instead of being able to create a recursive loop that calls all of my Langton ant logic function updating the board and then just simply calling a draw function with the new board, it was a bit different. 

```clojure

(defn simulate-ant [{:keys [board position simulation-count direction]}]
  (prn "counter" simulation-count)
    (if (< simulation-count 0)
      {:board board :position position :simulation-count simulation-count :direction direction}
      {:board (change-color board position)
       :position (move direction board position)
       :simulation-count (dec simulation-count)
       :direction (rotate-ant direction board position)}))

(defn draw [{:keys [board]}]
  (q/clear)
  (draw-grid board)
  )

```

Here the simulate-ant function takes a map of different keys and values and updates the values with the required functions to simulate the ant movement and color swapping that needs to take place.

```clojure
(defn main-sketch []
  (q/sketch
               :title "Langston Ant"
               :host :host
               :middleware [m/fun-mode]
               :size [600 600]
               :setup setup
               :draw draw
               :update simulate-ant
               ))
 ```
This main-sketch function creates a quil sketch that on its own continuously calls the designated functions given by the keys. The draw key calls the draw function which assigns squares to different colors and the update key calls the simulate-ant function. Together it is continuously updating the board and drawing which allows animation on the gui. At first it was a challenge to learn but I have a good understanding of the system and I am prepared to use it for my tic tac toe game.
